- Hey, Samuel. Welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hi, Mike. Great to meet you. Very excited to be here.
- Yeah, I'm really excited to have you here. You've been working on one of my favorite
projects these days that is just super, super neat, solving a lot of problems,
Pydantic, and I'm really excited to talk to you about it.
Yeah, it's, as I said, it's great to be here. I've been doing Pilotic on and off now since
2017, but...
Gosh.
A lot of work, but it's exciting to see something this popular.
Yeah, I'm sure it's a lot of work, but it really seems to have caught the imagination
and they're really excited about it.
So, fantastic work.
Before we get into the details there,
let's start with just your background.
How'd you get into programming Python?
- I guess I did a bit of programming at university,
a lot of, a bit of MATLAB and a bit of C++,
and then my first job after university,
I worked on oil rigs in Indonesia, of all strange things.
And there's a lot of time on an oil rig
when you're flat out, and there's a lot of other time
when you're doing absolutely nothing,
that don't have much to do,
and so I programmed quite a lot in that time,
and I suppose that was when I really got into loving it,
rather than just doing it when I had to.
And then, I guess Python from there,
bit of JavaScript, bit of Python ever since.
- Yeah, yeah, really cool.
I think things like MATLAB often do sort of pull people in,
and they have to learn a little bit of programming,
'cause it's a pain to just keep typing it into,
you know, whatever the equivalent of the REPL is
that MATLAB has, and create the .imp file,
and you kind of get going, and you start to combine them,
and then all of a sudden, it sort of sucks you into the programming world
when you maybe didn't plan to go that way.
Yeah, I worry...
Maybe other people learn it the right way
and sit down and read a book and understand how to do stuff,
but there's a lot of things that I wish I had known back then
that I learned only through reading other code
or through banging my head against the wall
that would have been really easy to learn
if someone had shown me them.
But hey, we got here.
Yeah, well, I think many,
I'd probably say most people got into programming that way,
and I think it's all fine.
- Yeah.
- It's all good.
So what was living on an oil rig like?
That must have been insane.
- It was pretty peculiar.
So half the time I was on land rigs
and half the time I was offshore.
Offshore, the conditions were a lot better.
Land rigs, the food was pretty horrific.
And a lot of, they were all,
I always did like a 14 hour night shift
and then occasionally had to do the day shift as well
and then go on to the night shift.
So sleep was a problem and the heat was a problem.
Yeah, it was a hard baptism of the real working world
after university, I must say.
- Yeah, I guess so.
It sounds really interesting, not an interesting like,
wow, I really wanna necessarily go out there and do it,
but you just must have come away with some wild stories
and a different perspective.
- Yeah, lots of stories that I won't retell now.
I don't think that's the kind of subject matter
the ones on your podcast.
But yeah, I mean, how oil rigs work,
well, whatever you think about it,
and however much we all want to get away from them,
it is crazy what you can do.
And so being like up against the,
the like at the coalface of that was really fascinating.
It's kind of like aerospace, but no one minds crashing.
So you can innovate, you can try a new thing.
You just, the faster you can drill, the better.
It's all that anyone cares about.
- Yeah. - Well,
mostly what they care about.
- Exactly.
Yeah, it must've been a cool adventure.
Awesome.
So I thought it'd be fun to start our conversation,
not exactly about Pydantic,
but just about this larger story,
that larger space that Pydantic lives in.
But maybe to set the stage,
give us like a real quick overview of like,
what problem does Pydantic solve for the world?
What is it and what does it solve for the world?
- So the most simplest way of thinking about it is
you've got some user somewhere,
they might be on the other end of a web connection,
they might be using a GUI,
they might be using a client, it doesn't really matter.
And they're entering some data
and you need to trust the data that they put in is correct.
So with Pydantic, I don't really care what someone enters.
All I care about is that you can validate it
to get what you want.
So if I need an integer and a string and a list of bytes,
all I care about is that I can get to that
integer, string and list of bytes.
I don't care if someone entered bytes for the string field
as long as I can decode it.
or if they entered a tuple instead of a list.
But yeah, the fundamental problem is people,
I suppose in theory, like intentionally trying
to do it wrong, but mostly innocently getting
something wrong, trying to coerce data
into the shape that you want it to be in.
And that's something that--
- Yeah, it's super easy to say like,
well, I read this value from a file,
and the value in the file is a number, it says one,
but you read it as strings.
So the thing you sent over is quote one,
not the number one.
And in programming, computers hate that, right?
They don't think those things are the same,
unless maybe you're JavaScript
and you do it in the right order, maybe.
But excluding that odd case, right?
A lot of times it's just crash, wrong data format
or whatever, we expected an integer and gave us a string.
But, you know, PyNandic just looks at it and says,
it could be an integer if you want it to be.
So we'll just do that.
- Yeah, and I think it's something
that there's been a lot of discussion about
on Pydantic's issue tracker,
there's an entire label strict about the discussions
about how strict we should be.
And I think it's fair to say Pydantic compared
to the other libraries is more lenient,
more keen on if we can try and coerce it into that type,
we will.
That really started for me trying to make it simple
and performant.
And I just called the,
I decided if something wasn't in by calling int on it
and seeing what happened.
That had some kind of strange side cases
because I called list on something to see if it was a list.
and that meant you could put a string of integers,
a string into a list of ints field,
and it would first of all call list on it,
turn it into a list, and then call int on each member,
and that was completely crazy.
So we've got stricter over the years,
and I think that in the future,
Pydantic will have to get a bit stricter.
In particular, stuff like coercing from a float to an int
quite often doesn't make sense or isn't what people want,
but most of the time, just working is really powerful,
really helpful.
some kind of data loss, right? If it's 1.0000, coincorsing that to one's fine. If it's 1.52,
maybe not.
Yeah, but it's difficult because we're in the Python world where Python is pretty lenient.
It doesn't mind you adding two floats together. If you call the int function on a float, it's
fine. So it's also trying to be Pythonic at the same time as being strict enough for people,
but without doing stuff that obviously,
without not doing stuff that's obvious,
because lots of people do just want coercion to work.
- Right, we'll get into it.
There's lots of places to plug in and write your own code
and do those kinds of checks if you really need to.
- Yeah.
- All right, Carlos has a good question out there
in the live stream, but I'm gonna get to that later
when we get a little bit more into it.
First, let's talk about some of the other things.
So, Pydantic is surprisingly popular these days,
but there's plenty of people I'm sure
who haven't heard of it,
who are hearing about it the first time here.
And there's other libraries that try to solve
these same type of problems, right?
Problem is I've got data in often a dictionary list mix,
right?
Like a list of dictionaries or a dictionary,
which contains lists, which contains like that kind of
object graph type of thing.
And I want to turn that into probably a class,
probably a Python class of some sort
or understand it in some way.
So, you know, we've got some of the really simple ways
of doing this where I just have those,
I don't want to stash that into a binary form,
which is pickle.
Pickle has been bad in certain ways
'cause it can run arbitrary Python code.
That's not ideal.
There's another related library called Quickle,
which is like pickle, but doesn't run arbitrary code.
that's pretty nice.
We have data classes that look very much
like what you're doing with PyDantic.
We have Marshmallow, which I hear often being used
with like Flask and SQLAlchemy and Marshmallow.
You maybe want to sort of give your perspective
on like what the choices are out there
and you know, where things are learning
from other libraries and growing from.
- Yeah, I put serialization as in pickle, JSON,
YAML, TOML, all of them into a different category,
message pack as a slightly different thing from taking Python objects and trying to turn
them into classes. So putting them to one side, because I think that's a kind of different
problem that Pydantic and Marshmallow and people aren't trying to solve exactly. Then
there's data classes, which are the kind of canonical standard library way of doing this.
They're great, but they don't provide any validation. So you can add a type in that
that says, "Name," so age is an integer,
but data classes don't care.
Whatever you put in will end up in that field.
And so that's useful if you have a fully type-inted system
where you know already that something's an integer
before you pass it to a data class,
but if you're loading it from a foreign source,
you often don't have that certainty.
And so that's where libraries like Pydantic
and Marshmallow come in.
Actually, Pydantic has a wrapper for data classes.
So you basically import the Pydantic version of DataClasses
instead of normal DataClasses, and from there on,
Pydantic will do all the validation,
give you back a completely standard DataClass,
but having done the validation.
Marshmallow is probably, well, it is undoubtedly
the biggest, most obvious competitor to Pydantic,
and it's great. I'm not going to sit here and badmouth it.
It's been around for longer, and it does a lot of things really well.
Pydantic has just overtaken a few months ago
Marshmallow in terms of popularity,
in terms of GitHub stars,
whether you care about that or not is another matter.
There's also Atras, which kind of predates data classes
and is closer to data classes.
But the big difference between Pydantic and Marshmallow
and most of the other competitors is Pydantic uses type ints.
So that one means you don't have to learn
a whole new kind of micro-language to define types.
You just write your classes and it works.
It works with mypy and with your static type analysis.
It works with your IDE like PyCharm now because it's an amazing extension.
I've forgotten the name of the guy who wrote it,
but there's an amazing extension that I used the whole time with PyCharm
that means it works seamlessly with PyDantic.
And there's some exciting stuff happening.
Microsoft, they emailed me actually two days ago,
one of their technical fellows about extending their
language server or their front-end for language server,
PyWrite, to work with PyLantic and other such libraries.
So because you're using standard type hints,
all the other stuff, including your brain,
should, in theory, click into place.
- Yeah, yeah, that's really neat.
I do think it makes sense to separate
sort of the serialization file,
save me a file, load a file type of thing out.
I really love the way that the type hints work in there
because you can almost immediately understand what's happening.
It's not like, "Oh, this is the way in which you describe the schema
and the way you describe the transformations."
It's just, "Here's a class.
It has some fields. Those fields have types."
That's all you need to know, and Pydantic will make the magic happen.
What would you say the big difference between Pydantic and Marshmallow is?
And I haven't used Marshmallow that frequently,
so I don't know it super well.
I would first give the same proviso
that I haven't used it that much either.
Probably, if I was more disciplined, I'd have sat down and used it
for some time before building Pydantic,
but that's not always the way things work.
The main difference is it doesn't use type hints,
or it doesn't primarily use type hints as its source
of data about what type something is.
And Pydantic is around, from my memory, I can check,
but significantly more performant than Marshmallow.
Yeah, you actually have some benchmarks on the site. We could talk about that in a little bit.
Yeah, so just briefly it's about two and a half times faster.
The advantage of Marshmallow at the moment is it has more logic around customizing how you serialize
types, so when you're going back from a class to a
dictionary or list of dictionaries and then out to JSON or whatever, Marshmallow has some really cool tools there
which Panasonic doesn't have yet,
and I'm hoping to build into V2
some more powerful ways of customizing serialization.
- Okay, fantastic.
Well, let's dive into it.
And I wanna talk about some of the core features here.
Maybe we could start with just you walking us through
a simple example of creating a class
and then taking some data and parsing over.
You've got this nice example right here on the homepage.
I think this is so good to just sort of look at.
There's a bunch of little nuances to cool things that happen here that I think people will benefit from.
Yeah, so you're obviously defining your class user here.
Very simple inheritance from base model, no decorator.
I thought about at the beginning that this should work for people who haven't been writing
Python for the last 10 years and where decorators look like strange magic,
I think using inheritance is the obvious way to do it.
And then obviously we define our fields.
The key thing really is that the type int, int in the case of id,
is used to define what type that field's going to be.
And then if we do give it a value, as we do with name,
that means that the field is not required.
It has a default value.
And obviously we can infer the type there from the default,
which is a string. Then sign up time stamp is obviously an optional date time, so it can be none.
And critically here, you could either enter none or leave it blank, and it would again be none.
And then we have friends, which is a more complex type, that's a list of integers.
And the cool stuff is because we're just using Python type int, we can
burrow down into lists of dicts, of lists of sets of whatever you like, within reason,
and it will continue to work.
And then looking at the external data,
again, we see a few things like we were talking about the coercion.
So we coerce from...
Right, this external data is just a dictionary
that you probably have gotten from an API call,
but it could have come from anywhere.
It doesn't have to come from there.
Right, exactly. Anywhere outside.
But right now we've got it as far as being a dictionary.
So the point here is we're doing a bit of coercion.
So trivial converting from a string 123 to the number 123,
but then a bit more complex, parsing the date and converting that into a date object.
And then as you can see...
Right, so you have in here the data that's passed in,
you've got a quote, 2019-06-01 and a time.
And this is notoriously tricky because things like JSON don't even support dates.
Like don't freak out if you try to send one over.
So you just got this string, but it'll be turned into a date.
Yeah, and we do a whole bunch of different things to try and do
all of the sensible date formats.
There's obviously a limit as how far to go,
because one of the things Pivantic can do is
it can interpret integers as dates using Unix timestamps.
And if they're over some threshold in about two centuries from now,
it assumes they're in milliseconds, so it works with
milliseconds, which are often used,
but it does also lead to confusions when someone puts in
123 as a date, and it's three seconds after 1970.
There's an ongoing debate about exactly what you should try
and coerce and when it gets magic, but for me,
there's a number of times I've just found it incredibly useful
that it just works.
So, for example, the string format that Postgre uses
when you use toJSON just works with Pydantic,
so you don't even have to think about whether that's come through
as a date or as a string until you're worried
about a limit of performance, most of that stuff just works.
- Yeah, then one of the things that I think
is super interesting is you have these friend IDs
that you're passing over, and you said in PyDandig,
it's a list of integers, and in the external data,
it is a list of sometimes integers and sometimes strings,
but once it gets parsed across,
it not just looks at the immediate fields,
but it looks at, say, things inside of a list and says,
oh, you wanted a list of integers.
Here, this is a list that has a string in it,
but it's like quote three, so it's fine.
- Yeah, and this is where it gets cool,
because we can go recursively down into the rabbit hole
and it will continue to validate.
One of the tricky things that I think
is what most people want, but where our language fails us
is about the word validation,
because quite often validation sounds like
I'm checking the input data is in the form that I said.
That's kind of not what Pydantic's doing.
It's optimistically trying to parse.
So it doesn't care what the list contains in a sense,
as long as it can find a way to make that into an int.
So this wouldn't be a good library to use
for like unit testing and checking
that something is the way that it should be,
because it's gonna accept a million different things.
It's gonna be as lenient as possible
in what it will take in.
But that's by design.
- Yeah.
The way to take this external dictionary
and then get PyDance to parse it
is you just pass it as keyword arguments
to the class constructor.
So you say user of star star dictionary,
so that'll explode that out to keyword arguments.
And that's it, that runs the entire parsing, right?
That's super simple.
- Yeah, and that's again by design
to make it just the simplest way of doing it.
If you want to do crazy complex stuff
like constructing models without doing validation
because you know it's already been validated,
That's all possible, but the simplest interface,
just calling in it on the class
is designed to work and do the validation.
- Yeah, cool.
One thing I think is really neat and not obvious right away
is that you can nest these things as well, right?
Like I could have a shopping cart
and the shopping cart could have a list of orders
and each order in that list
could be a PyDantec model itself, right?
- Exactly, and it's probably an open question
as to how complex we should make this first example.
Maybe it's already too complicated.
Maybe it doesn't demonstrate all the power,
but I think it's probably about right.
But yeah, you can go recursive,
you can even do some crazy things
like the root type of a model can actually not itself
be a lit sequence of fields, it can be a list itself.
So there is a long tail of complex stuff you can do,
but you're right, the inheritance of different models
is a really powerful way of defining types,
because in reality, our models are never nice,
key and value of different types.
They always have complex items deeper down.
- Right, yeah, I just think that that's really cool.
And on top of these, I guess we can add validation.
Like you have the, you said the very optimistic validation,
like if in the friends list, it said one, two comma Jane,
well, it's probably gonna crash
when it tries to convert Jane into an integer
and say, no, no, no, this is wrong.
And it gives you a really good error message.
it says something like the third item in this list is Jane,
and that's not an integer, right?
It doesn't just go, well, they're bad, you know,
too bad.
- Yeah, and you could decide,
perhaps Jane's a strange case,
but if you wanted the word one, O-N-E, to somehow work,
you could add your own logic relatively trivially
via a decorator, which said, okay, cool,
if we get the word one or the word two or the word three,
then we can convert them to the equivalent integers.
and that's relatively easy to add.
- Yeah, cool.
Now, one thing that I guess the scenario
where people run into this often,
run into working with PyDandic
is it's sort of the exchange layer for FastAPI,
which is one of the more popular API frameworks these days.
And you just say, your API function
takes some PyDandic model
and it returns some PyDandic model
and magic happens.
But if you're not working in that world,
if you're not in FastAPI,
and most people doing web development these days are not,
'cause it's not the most popular framework,
and it's also certainly not
the most popular legacy framework.
So you can do things like create these models directly
in your code, let it do the validation there,
and then if you need to return
the whole object graph as a dictionary,
you can just say model.dict, right?
- Yeah, and also model.json,
and that will take it right out to JSON.
-As a string. -Yeah.
So it will turn a string of that JSON.
And you can even swap in more performant JSON encoders and decoders.
And this is why I was talking about just already some power
and what you can do here and which fields you can exclude.
And it's pretty powerful, but it's, as I say,
something in V2 that we might look at to make even more powerful
is customizing how you do this.
- Nice, yeah, so you might expect to just call .dict
and it converts it to a dictionary,
kind of reverses it, if you will.
But there's actually a lot of parameters and arguments
you can pass in to have more control.
Do you want to talk about maybe just some
of the use cases there?
- Yeah, as we see here, you can choose
to include specific fields and the rest
will be excluded by default.
You can set exclude, which will exclude certain fields
and the rest will be included by default.
Those include and exclude fields
can do some pretty ridiculously crazy logic
going recursively into the models that you're looking at
and excluding specific fields from those models
or specific items from lists even.
Some of the code, I forget who wrote that,
but I wrote the first version of it,
I wrote the second and third version of it,
and I was looking through about the 10th version of it
the other day, and it is some of the most complex
bits of PyDantic.
but that's amazingly powerful.
And then we didn't talk about aliases,
but you can imagine if you were interacting
with the JavaScript framework,
you might be using camel case on the front end
for like user name with a capital N,
but have user underscore name in Python world
where we're using underscores.
We can manage that by setting aliases on each field.
So saying that the user underscore name field
has the alias user upscore N name.
And then we can obviously export to a dictionary
using those aliases if we wish.
- That's cool.
So you can program in Pythonic style classes,
even if you're consuming, say a Java or C# API
that clearly uses a different format
or style for its naming.
- Exactly.
And you can then export again to,
back to those aliases when you wanna go on
to like pipe it on down your data processing flow
or however you're gonna do it.
And in fact, one of the things that will come up in future
will be different aliases for import
on the inside in way and the out way.
But like until so far, there's just one,
but yeah, that's powerful.
And then you can exclude fields that have defaults.
So if you're trying to save that data to a database
and you don't wanna save more than you need to,
you can exclude stuff where it has a default value
and you can exclude fields which are none,
which again is often the same thing,
but there are subtle cases
where those are different requirements.
- And that also might really just,
even if you're not saving it to a database,
you know, that will lower the size of the JSON traffic
between say microservices or something like that,
if you don't need to send the defaults over,
especially the nones,
'cause they're probably gonna go to the thing they get
and go, you know, give me the value
or none in whatever language they're using, right?
Something to that effect.
So it'll be the same.
Yeah.
- We have complex stuff here.
So we have exclude unset, exclude none,
and exclude defaults.
So you can decide exactly how you want to exclude it
to get just the fields that are actually live,
as it were, that have custom values.
- Yeah, so you have this dict thing,
which will turn a dictionary,
and then you have the JSON one,
which is interesting.
We talked about that one.
You also have copy, so is that like a shallow copy?
If you want to clone it off or something?
It can be a deep copy, but you can update some fields
on the way through.
There are multiple different contexts where you might want to do that,
where you want different models where you can go and edit one of them
and not damage the other one,
or you want to modify a model as you're copying it.
We also have...
a setting on config that makes fields pseudo immutable.
So it doesn't allow you to change that value,
doesn't stop you changing stuff within that value
because there's no way of doing that in Python.
But that's another case where you might want to use copy
because you've set your model up to be effectively static
and you want to create a new one.
If you're being super careful and strict,
you would say, "I'm never going to modify my model.
I'm just going to copy it when I want a new one."
Yeah, perfect. Yeah, certain things you could enforce that they don't change like strings and numbers.
But if it's a list, like the list can't point somewhere else, but what's in the list, you can't really do anything about that, right?
Yeah.
So another thing that I think is worth touching on that's interesting is,
you know, there's some obvious things that are the types that can be set
for the field types and then the data exchange conversion types,
bools, integers, floats, strings, and so on.
But then it gets further
It gets more specialized down there as you go. So for example, you can have unions
You can have frozen sets. You can have iterables callables
Uh network addresses all kinds of stuff, right? Yeah, we try and support
almost anything you can think of from the
from the python standard library and then if you go on down we get to a whole bunch of things that that are even
that aren't supported or don't have an obvious equivalent
within the standard library, but where you go on down to...
pedantic types on the right, so where you're looking is in the example,
but pedantic types, then we get into things that don't exist within,
or there isn't an obvious type for in pedantic in Python.
There's a kind of subtle point here that like,
Often, these types are used to enforce more validation.
So what's returned is an existing Python type.
So here we have file path, which returns a path,
but it just guarantees that that file exists.
And directory path, similarly, is just a path,
but it will confirm that it is a directory.
And email string just returns you a string,
but it's validated that it's a legitimate email address.
But then some do more complex stuff.
So name email will return you,
allow you to split out names and email addresses
and more complex things.
- Got credit cards, colors, URLs,
all sorts of good stuff there, yeah.
- Yes, so there's a Mexican bank called,
excuse my pronunciation, Civenca,
who use the credit card field
for all of their validation of credit card numbers, so.
- Yeah.
Yeah, it's super interesting.
And you think about how do you do this validation,
how do you do these conversions yourself?
not only do you have to figure that out,
but then you've got to do it in the context
of like a larger data conversion.
And here you just say, this field is a type email
and it either is an email
or it's going to tell you that it's invalid, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah.
- Yeah, I like this a lot.
You know, one thing that it's,
we've been talking about this pretty straightforward
is using this for APIs, right?
Like somebody who's doing a JSON post
and you get that as a dictionary in your web framework
and then you kind of validate it and convert it and so on.
But it seems like you could even use this for like web forms
and other type of things, right?
Somebody submitting some kind of ATP post of a form
and it comes over, right?
If you want to say, these values are required,
this one's an email and so on.
- Yeah, so all of the form validation
for multiple different projects I've built,
some open source, lots proprietary,
use Pylantic for form validation
and use the error messages directly back to the user.
I've got quite a lot of JavaScript
that basically works with Pydantic to build forms
and do validation and return that validation to the user.
I've never quite gone far enough to really open source that
and push it as a React plugin or something,
but it wouldn't be hard to do.
- So let me ask you this, and maybe when you say React,
maybe that's enough of an answer already,
but if it's a server-side processing form
it's not a single page sort of friend and framework style
of form submission.
Often what you need to do is return back to them
the wrong data, right?
If they type in something that's not an email
and over there it's not a number,
you still wanna leave the form filled with that bad email
and that thing that's not a number.
So you can say, those are wrong, keep on typing them.
Is there a way to make that kind of round tripping work
with Pydantic?
I've tried and haven't been able to do it,
But if it's a front-end framework,
it's easy to say, submit this form,
catch the error and show the error
'cause you're not actually leaving the page
or clearing the form with a reload.
- Yeah, the short answer is no,
and it's something that's an issue of alpha v2
to return the wrong value always
in the context of each error.
Often you kind of need it to make the error make sense,
but at the moment it's generally not available
and we will add it in v2.
What I've done in React is obviously you've still got
the values that were entered on the form,
so you don't clear any of the inputs.
You just add the errors to those fields
and set the whatever it is, invalid header,
so they're nice and red.
- Yeah, exactly.
So if it was a front-end framework like Reactor View,
I can see this working perfectly
as you try to submit it for a form.
But if you got to round trip it with like a flask,
a pyramid or Django form or something that doesn't have it,
then the fact that it doesn't capture the data.
I mean, I guess you could return back
just the original posted dictionary, but yeah.
- Yeah, so you have the original,
yeah, like you say, normally there,
it's not too many different levels
and it's relatively simple to combine up the dictionary
you got straight off the form submission with the errors.
But yeah, you're right, it's something we should improve.
- Yeah.
- Well, I'm not necessarily that,
I'm not sure that you necessarily need to improve it
'cause it's mission is being fulfilled exactly how it is.
And if it has this time,
but well, sometimes it throws errors
and sometimes it doesn't and like just report.
I don't know, it seems like you could overly
complicate it as well.
- I think there's like a really difficult challenge
in the tragedy of the commons
in like someone wants a niche feature,
someone else wants that feature,
you get 10 people wanting that feature,
you feel under overwhelming pressure
to implement that feature, but you forget that there's,
I forget, you know, there's like 6,000 people who started it
but it's like 10, 12,000 projects that use Pydantic.
Those people haven't asked for that.
Do they want it or would they actively prefer
that Pydantic was simpler, faster, smaller?
- Exactly.
- Because you don't need to implement that.
- Right, part of the beauty of it is it's so simple, right?
I do X, I get the value, I define the class,
I star star, take the data.
And it's either good or it's crashed, right?
If it gets past that line, you should be happy.
Yeah, and I think that I'm pretty determined to keep that stuff that simple.
There are those who want to change it who say,
"Initializing the class shouldn't do the validation,
then you should call a validate method."
I'm not into that at all.
There's stuff where I'm definitely going to keep it simple
and there's stuff where I'm really happy to add more things.
So we were talking about custom types before.
I'm really happy to add virtually, not virtually any,
but a lot of custom types when someone wants it
because if you don't need it, it just sits there
and mostly doesn't affect people.
- Right, if you don't specify a column
or a field of that type, it doesn't matter.
You'll never know it or care.
Yeah. - Yeah.
- So there's a couple of comments in the live stream.
I think maybe we can go ahead and touch on them
about sort of future plans.
So you did mention that there's gonna be
kind of a major upgrade of V2,
and Carlos out there asks,
is there any plans for Pydantic to give support
for PySpark data frame scheme validation?
Or, you know, let me ask more broadly,
like any of the data science world integration
with like pandas or other, you know,
NumPy or other things like that.
- There's been a lot of issues on NumPy arrays
and like validating them using list types
without going all the way to like Python list
because that can have performance problems.
I can't remember because it was a long time ago,
but people, whoever it was, found a solution.
And like, PyDantic is used a lot now in data science.
If you look at the projects it's used in,
by Uber and by Facebook,
'cause they're like big machine learning projects.
Fast, Facebook's Fast MRI library uses it.
Like, it's used a reasonable amount
in like big data validation pipelines.
So I don't know about PySpark,
so I'm not gonna be able to give a definitive answer
If you create an issue, I'll endeavor to remember
to look at it and have a look and give an answer.
- You'll start your PySpark research project?
- Yeah.
- Nice, also from Carlos, what's the timeframe for V2?
- Someone joked to me the other day
that the release date was originally put down
as the end of March 2020 and that didn't get reached
and it's still, the short answer is that I need to,
there are two problems.
One is I need to set some time aside
to sit there and build quite a lot of code.
Second problem is the number of open PRs
and the number of issues.
I find it hard sometimes to bring myself
to go and work on Pydantic when I have time off
because a lot of it is like the troll of going through issues
and reviewing pull requests.
And when I'm not doing my day job of writing code,
I want to write code on something fun
and not have to review other people's code
because I do that for a day job quite a lot.
So I've had a bit of trouble getting my back-ending gear
to go and work on Pydantic because I feel like
there's 20 hours of reviewing other people's code
before I can do anything fun.
And I think one of the solutions to that
is I'm just gonna start building V2
and ignore some pull requests
and might have to break some eggs to make an omelet,
but I think that's better.
- Okay, yeah.
Well, and also in your defense,
a lot of things were planned for March, 2020.
- Yeah, that is true.
I have sat at my desk in my office
for a total of about eight hours since then.
So I haven't been back to the office in London at all.
So yeah, I would hope this year.
- Yeah, cool.
All right.
And then related to that, Risky Chance asks,
where should people who want to contribute
to PyDendrix start?
And I would help you kick off this conversation
by just pointing out that you have tagged
a bunch of issues as help wanted,
and then also maybe reviewing PRs,
but what else would you add to that?
- I think the first thing I would say is,
and I know this isn't the most fun thing to do,
but if people could help with reviewing discussions
and issues, that's a really--
- A triage type stuff?
- Yeah, but if you go onto discussions,
we use the GitHub discussions,
which maybe people don't even see,
but these are all questions you can go in and answer
if someone has a problem, lots of them aren't that complicated.
I know that's perhaps not what risky chance meant
in terms of writing code.
And that's obviously, for some of us, where the fun lies.
But these questions would be enormously helpful
if people could have--
you can see some of them are answered, and that's great.
But there are others that aren't.
And then, yeah, when I--
reviewing pull requests would be the second most useful thing
people could do.
and then if there are unwanted issues,
just checking that we're still on for it
and it's the right time to do it.
And then I do love submissions.
I noticed today there were 200 and something people
who've contributed to Pydantic,
so I do do my best to support anyone who comes along,
however inexperienced or experienced
building features or fixing bugs, but yeah.
Yeah, fantastic.
All right, another thing I want to talk to you about,
Is this the right one?
I believe, no, the validating decorator.
Well, let's talk about validators first.
We touched on this a little bit.
So one thing you can do is you can write functions
that you decorate with this validator decorator
and says, this is the function whose job is
to do a deeper check on a field, right?
So you can say, this is a validator for name,
this is a validator for username
or validator for email or whatever.
And those functions are ways in which you can take better control over
what is a valid value and stuff like that, right?
Yeah, but you can do more. You can't just be stricter,
as in raising error if it's not how you want it.
You can also change the value that you're going to, that's come in.
So you can see in the first case of name contains a space,
we checked that the name doesn't contain a space as a dummy example,
but we also return titles, so capitalize the first letter.
So you can also change the value you're going to put in.
So coming back to the date case we were hearing about earlier,
if you knew your users were going to use some very specific date format
of day of the week as a string, followed by day of the month,
followed by year in Roman numerals,
you could spot that with a regex,
have your own logic to do the validation,
and then if it's at any other date, pass it through to the normal
gigantic logic, which will carry on and do its normal stuff on strings.
Yeah, cool. Now, this stuff is pretty advanced,
but you can also do simple stuff like set an inner class,
which is a config, and just set things like
any string strip off the white space or lowercase all the strings
or stuff like that, right?
Yeah, and there's allowMutation, which you've got to there,
which is super helpful. That's where we can drop fields
and be modified. There's extra there,
which is something people often want, which is what do we do
with extra fields that we haven't defined on our model?
Is that an error? Do we just ignore them or do we allow them and just like
bung them on the class and we won't have any type hints for them, but they are there if we want them.
Yeah.
Yeah, very cool. Okay, so the other thing I wanted to ask you about is really interesting because part of
what I think makes Pydantic really interesting is its deep leveraging of type hints, right?
And in Python, type hints are a suggestion.
They're things that make our editors light up.
They are things that if you really, really tried,
I don't think most people do this,
but you could run something like mypy against it,
and it would tell you if it's accurate or not.
I think most people just put it as there's extra information,
maybe PyCharm or VS Code tells you you're doing it right,
or gives you better autocomplete.
But under almost no circumstance
does having a function called add that says
x colon int comma y colon int only work if you pass integers, right?
You could pass strings to it and probably get a concatenated string
out of that Python function.
Because there's no, it's not like C++ or something where
it compiles down and checks the thing, right?
But you also have this validating decorator thing,
which it seems to me like this will actually
sort of add that runtime check for the types. Is that correct?
That's exactly what it's designed to do.
It's always been a kind of interest to me,
almost a kind of, yeah, just to kind of experiment
to see whether this is possible,
whether we could have semi-strictly typed logic in Python.
I should say before we go any further,
this isn't to be used on every function.
It's not like Rust where doing that validation
actually makes it faster.
This is going to make calling your function way, way slower
because inside validate arguments,
we're going to go off and do a whole bunch of logic
to validate every field,
but there are situations where it can be really useful
and where creating that Pydantic model was a bit onerous,
but where we can just bang on the decorator
and get some validation kind of for free.
Right, because the decorator basically does the same thing.
I mean, sorry, the classes do the same thing
as this decorator might,
but instead of having a class, you have arguments.
And under the hood, what validate arguments is doing
is it's inspecting that function, taking out the arguments,
building them into a Pynantic model,
and then running the input into that Pynantic model,
and then using the result to call the function.
- Yeah, and that sounds like more work
than just calling the function, for sure.
It depends on how much it does, right?
Does it cache that kind of,
does it like cache the class that it creates
when it decorates a function?
- Same as we do in other places,
but yes, it's still a lot more like
pedantic fast for data validation,
but it's data validation, not a compiler.
- Yeah, so maybe this would make sense
if I'm writing a data science library
and at the very outer shell,
I pass in a whole bunch of data,
then it goes off to all sorts of places.
Maybe it might make sense to put this on the boundary,
entry point type of thing, but nowhere else.
- Yeah, exactly, where someone's gonna find it
much easier to see a pedantic error saying
these fields were wrong rather than seeing
some strange matrix that comes out the wrong shape
because it passed in something as a string, not an int.
- Or none type has no attribute such and such.
- Yeah. - Whatever.
Right, that standard error they always run into.
Okay, yeah, that's pretty interesting.
Let's talk a little bit about speed.
You have talked about this a couple of times,
but maybe it's just worth throwing up a simple example here
to put them together.
So we've got Pydantic, we've got Adders,
we've got Validere, which I've never heard about,
but very cool, Marshmallow,
and a couple of others like Django REST Framework
and Cerebus.
So it has all of these in relative time
to some benchmark code that you have,
but it basically gives it as a percentage
or a factor of performance, right?
- Yeah, and look, the first thing I'll say is
that there were lies, damn lies, and benchmarks.
You might well get different results,
but my impression from what I've seen is that
Pydantic is as fast, if not faster,
than the other ways of doing it in Python,
short of writing your own custom code in each place
to be like, yeah, to do manual validation,
which is a massive pain.
And if you're doing that, you probably wanna go
and write it in a proper language,
a proper compiled language anyway.
- Right, right, or maybe just use Cython
on some little section, something like that, right?
- So all of Pydantic is compiled with Cython
and is about twice as fast.
If you install it with pip,
you will get mostly the compiled version.
There are binaries available for Windows, Mac and Linux,
Windows 64-bit, not 32, and maybe some other extreme,
and it will compile for other operating systems.
So it's already faster than just calling Python.
Well, I don't know about whether validation
with Pydantic that's compiled is faster than raw Python,
but like, it'll be of the same order of magnitude.
- Yeah, yeah, fantastic.
Okay, I didn't realize it was compiled with Cython.
That's great.
- Yeah, so-- - That's part of the magic,
making it faster.
- Yeah, so that was David Montague, a year and a half ago,
put an enormous amount of effort into it,
and yeah, about doubled the performance.
So it's Python compiled with Cython
rather than real Cython code.
So it's not as C speed,
but it's faster than just calling Python.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And Cython, taking the type hint information
and working so well with it these days,
it probably was easier than it used to be
or didn't require as many changes as it might otherwise.
- Yeah, I mean, I think it's an open question
whether Cython is faster with type hints.
It does, in places actually adding type hints
makes it slower because it does its own checks
that I think is a string when you've said it's a string.
But yeah, I think it does use it in places.
- Yeah, I was thinking more like you don't have to rewrite
it in Cython, like you don't have to convert Python code
to Cython code where it has its own sort of
descriptor language.
But like, if you have Python code that's type annotated,
it'll take that and run with it these days.
- I think it isn't any faster or any better
because of the type ins much.
Although someone out there is an expert
and I don't wanna say that, so I'm not sure.
- Yeah, okay.
All right, another thing I want to touch on
is the data model code generator.
You want to tell us about this thing?
- I haven't used it much, but yeah,
so what we have on board right now is JSON Schema,
which is Sebastian Ramirez implemented a couple of years ago
when he was first starting out on FastAPI,
and is one of the coolest features of FastAPI
and Pydantic is that once you've created your model,
you don't just get model and model validation,
you also get a schema generated for your model.
And in FastAPI, that's automatically created
with Redock into really smart documentation.
So you don't even have to think about documentation
most of the time, if it's internal,
or it's not widely used API,
and even if it's widely used, add some doc strings,
and you've got yourself amazing API documentation
just straight from your model.
and data model code generation as I understand it
is generating those JSON schema models.
Is that right?
I mean, I haven't used it.
- Yeah, I think so.
It feels to me like it's the reverse
of what you described from what Sebastian has created.
Given one of these open API definitions,
it will generate the Pydantic model for you.
So if I was gonna consume an API,
And I'm like, well, I got to write some
pedantic models to match it.
Like you could run this thing to say, well,
give me a good shot at getting pretty close.
- I, yeah, I had it around the wrong way, but yeah,
I think I, my instinct is I haven't used it,
but that it gets you, it does 90% of the work for you.
And then there's a bit of like manual tinkering
around the edge to change some of the types I suspect,
but like, yeah, really useful.
- Yeah, and it supports different frameworks and stuff.
And I haven't used it either, but it just seemed like
it was a cool thing related to sort of quickly
get people started if they've got something complex
to do with PyDantic.
So for example, I built this weather, real time,
weather, live weather data service for one of my classes
over at weather.talkpython.fm.
I built that in FastAPI and it exchanges PyDantic models
and all you gotta do in order to see the documentation
is just go to slash docs and then it gives you
the JSON schema.
So presumably I could point that thing at this
and then it would generate--
- Yeah.
- Exactly, and get a fairly complicated
PyDenic model pre-built for me,
which I think is pretty excellent.
- Yeah.
It's worth saying, maybe you disagree,
but I think the re-doc version of the documentation
or the auto docs is even smarter than that one.
I don't know if you've got it.
Yeah, that one I think is even smarter.
- Oh yeah, this is a really nice one.
I like this one a lot.
- Yeah, it even gives you the responses there.
It can be 200 or 422.
And I did build that into there,
but I didn't expect it to actually know.
That's pretty interesting.
- Yeah, it's cool.
- Yeah, it's very cool.
So they're both there, either /docs or /redoc.
- Or you can switch one off or change the endpoints,
but yeah.
- Yeah, and by the way,
if you're putting out a FastAPI,
API and you don't want public documentation,
make sure that you set the docs URL and the redocs URL to none
when you're creating your app or your API instance.
So yeah, that's always on unless you take action.
So you better just let it. - Or you could do what I've done,
which is protect it with authentication
so the front-end developers can use it,
but it's not publicly available.
So if you're building like a React app,
it's really useful to have your front-end engineers
be able to go and see that stuff
and understand what the fields are,
but it's a bit of a weird thing to make public,
even if there's nothing particularly sensitive.
So yeah, you can put it behind authentication.
- Yeah, yeah, very good.
All right, you already talked about the PyCharm plugin,
but maybe give us a sense for
why do we need a PyCharm plugin?
I have PyCharm, and if it has the type information,
a lot of times it seems like it's already good to go.
So what do I get from this PyCharm plugin?
Like, why should I go put this in?
- So once you've created your model,
If we think about the example on the index page again,
once we've created our model,
accessing .friends or .id or .name will work
and PyCharm will correctly give us information about,
we'll say, okay, first name exists,
like foobar name doesn't exist.
It's a string, so it makes sense to add it to another string.
But when we initialize a model,
It doesn't know how, like the init function of Pydantic
just looks like, take all of the things
and pass them to some magic function.
- It looks like star star KWR, good luck, go read the docs.
- Exactly that.
But this is where the PyCharm plugin comes in
because it gives you documentation on the arguments.
- Okay, so it looks at the fields and their types
and says, well, these are actually keyword arguments
to the constructor of the initializer.
- Yeah.
- Okay, yeah, got it.
That's very cool.
- And it will also, I don't even know what it does.
I just use it the whole time and it works.
You know those things, but you don't need to think about.
- Yeah, cool.
So it gives you auto-completion and type checking,
which is cool for the initializer, right?
So if you were to try to pass in something wrong,
it would let you know.
Also it says it supports refactoring.
If you refactor the keyword.
Yeah, go ahead.
- One of the really useful things it does
is when we talked about validators,
which are done by a decorator,
they are class methods very specifically
because you might think that they're instance methods
and you have access to self, you don't,
'cause they're called before the model itself is initialized.
So the first argument to them should be class CLS.
It will automatically give you error if you put self,
which is really helpful when you're creating
those validators 'cause otherwise without it,
PyCharm assumes it's an instance method,
gives you self and then you get yourself into hot water
when you access self.userid and it breaks.
- Oh, interesting.
Okay, yeah, that makes sense.
Because it's converting and checking all the values
and then it creates the object
and assigns the fields, right?
Okay.
- Yeah, so we can access other values during validation
from the values keyword argument to the validator,
but not via like self.userid or whatever.
- Yeah, cool.
And Risky Chance loves that it works with aliases too.
- Oh yeah, it does.
It does lots of cool things.
I'm really impressed by it.
Yeah, it's one of the coolest things
that come out of Pydantic.
- Awesome, yeah, I've installed it
and I'm like, I'm sure my Pydantic experience is better,
but I just don't know what is built in
and what is coming from this thing.
- We're also used to PyCharm just working on so many things
that you don't even notice,
like, yeah, you only notice when it doesn't work, so.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So we're getting a little short on time,
but I did want to ask you about Python DevTools,
'cause you talked about having Pydantic work well
with the DevTools as well.
- Yes.
- What are these?
You're also the author of Python DevTools, yeah?
- Yeah, so DevTools is, for me,
it's just a debug print command that prints stuff pretty
and gives it color and tells me what line it was printed on.
And I use it the whole time in development
instead of print.
And obviously I wanted it to show me my
Pydantic models in a pretty way.
So it has integration.
There were some hooks in DevTools
that allow it to customize the way stuff's printed.
And I actually know that the author of Rich,
he's slightly frustratingly has used
a different system all over again,
but he's also supported Pydantic.
So Pydantic will also print pretty with Rich
as well as with DevTools.
- Yeah, cool.
Okay, really nice.
Rich is a great TUI, Terminal User Interface
library for Python.
- Yeah, it's cool.
It's different from DevTools.
I wouldn't say they compete.
DevTools is, for me, it's just,
it does have some other things,
some timing tools and some formatting,
but for me, it's just the debug print command
that Python never had.
- So what's the Pydantic plugin here,
or connection, rather, here?
So if I debug out of DevTools a model,
I get just a really nice representation?
Yeah, exactly that.
It's not showing it,
it's because you're in the DevTools docs,
there's some other docs in Atlantic,
I'll give you an example.
It'll give you a nice example if it expanded out
rather than squashed into one line.
So usage with DevTools is the last line.
Got it.
Yeah, so you see that, you see the user
picked out nicely instead of, yeah,
done like that.
Yeah, I suppose that demonstrates its usage for me.
- Yeah, perfect, that looks really good.
It's nice to be able to just print out
these sorts of things and see them really quickly.
What's the just basic string representation
of a Pydantic model?
Like for example, if I'm in PyCharm and I hit a breakpoint,
or I'm just curious what something is and I just print it,
Like PyCharm will like put a little grayed out
string and stir representation.
- It's right there.
I think that's the string representation
you're looking at right there.
- Yeah, perfect.
So you get a really rich sort of view of it
embedded in the editor or if you print it.
- And if you use Repra,
then you get basically wrapped in user.
- All right, okay.
So it gives you as if it were.
- Yeah.
- You're trying to construct it out of that data.
- Okay.
- Fantastic, well, you know, we've covered a bunch of things
and I know there's a lot more.
I don't recall whether we talked about this
while we were recording or whether we talked about it before
and we were just setting up what we wanted to talk about,
but it's worth emphasizing that this is not just
a FastAPI validation data exchange thing.
It works really great.
A lot of the stuff happens there, but if you're using Flask,
if you're using Pyramid, if you're using,
I don't know about Django so much
because the models is not there.
One of the things we haven't talked about as well is settings management, which
uh pedantic has some pretty powerful features for and actually one of the things was added in 1.7 or 1.8 was like
Basically a system for plugins to do even crazier stuff with settings
So not just you loading them from environment variables and from dot m files, but also from docker secrets
Now we have an interface to load them from kind of anywhere so you can build your own interface for for loading settings from from places
but someone's built a Django settings tool with Pydantic
to kind of validate your Django settings using Pydantic.
But yeah, I think what's cool about Pydantic
is it's not part of a kind of walled garden
of tools that all fit together.
Well, that have to be used with each other.
It fits with Pydantic,
but it's used in lots of other big projects,
or you can just use it in Flask or in Django
or wherever you like.
- Right, if you're reading JSON files off a disk,
it could totally make sense to use it,
or you're doing screen scraping,
potentially it makes, or just call API,
but you're the client of that API,
it could totally make sense to do that.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so just want to point out,
like it's super broadly applicable,
not just where people see it being really used.
And Nick H out there is definitely gonna try this
with Django, so awesome.
- That's cool.
- Yeah, so let's wrap this up with just,
And then we spoke a little bit about V2 and the timing.
Like what are the major features that you think,
like what are the highlights
that people should look forward to?
- We talked about major features,
but there's a bigger problem at hand,
which is that Python 3.10 at the moment in PEP,
I'm gonna try and remind myself of the exact number,
but like in PEP 6.9, no in 5.6.3,
basically all type hints become strings
instead of Python objects.
And so, and like that's been available in future,
as a future--
- Right, is that a lazy evaluation of the annotation?
- It's not even a lazy evaluation, it's a non-evaluation.
And it seems like unless Python themselves,
the core team are prepared to move on this
and like be practical about things,
it might be that PyNantic becomes either like hard to use
or even not useful in 3.10.
It sounds like--
- Really?
- Like there, I'm talking at the Python Summit
in PyCon US in May in the language,
in the bit where people discuss it,
I'm gonna try and put this forward.
But I had a conversation today,
just before I came online now
with someone who's created a pet that should fix this,
but the current response from the core developers
is to refuse it.
So I'm really worried and frustrated that that might happen
and lots of tools, FastAPI, Pydantic, Typer, and others,
again, they get broken for the sake of principle effectively
that type int should only be used for static type analysis.
So we'll see what happens.
And normally with open source, people find a way around,
but I think that's really worrying.
And I'll create an issue on Pydantic to track this properly,
but it is something to be aware of.
And it's something that I think those of us
who use these libraries need to...
It's very easy to wait until after something's released
and then be frustrated.
It's important sometimes to notice before they're released
and make a point.
- Wow, well, I'm really glad you pointed that out.
I had no idea.
I knew there was minor behind the scene changes
from a consumer perspective of type annotations,
but that sounds like there's more going on
for libraries like this.
- So there's a PR, there's a PEP that will fix this,
which is PEP 649, which I have not yet read
because I only got the email about it two hours ago.
But if anyone's looking into it,
I will create an issue on Pydantic to talk about this,
but something like this needs to happen.
Also, Larry emailed me an hour or two hours ago
to talk about this, but this is a really big problem
that we need to prevent breaking lots of cool stuff
that's happening in Python.
- All right, well, I agree.
First impressions is I absolutely agree,
'cause I do think what you guys are doing,
what you're doing with Pydantic,
what is happening with FastAPI,
And these types of systems, it's a really fantastic direction
and really building on top of the type annotation world.
And I would hate to see that get squashed.
What's incredible about it, just briefly,
is that it's used by Microsoft in core bits of Office.
It's used by Uber, by the NSA, by banks.
It's used by JP Morgan.
But it's also really easy to get started with at the very beginning.
And it's wonderful for me that we can build open source code
that can be useful to the biggest organizations in the world
and to someone when they're first getting started,
not this idea that it has to be dense and mainframe and impossible
or like Mickey Mouse and not worth using.
Like, FastAPI and Pydantic seem to be managing to be both.
I agree. I think they are, absolutely.
Well, congratulations on building something amazing.
-Thank you very much, Michael. -And hopefully,
649 keeps things rolling smooth.
but hopefully that gets ironed out.
All right, now we're pretty much out of time,
but before I let you out of here,
let me ask the final two questions.
So if you're gonna write some code,
if you're gonna work on PyDantic, what editor do you use?
- I use PyCharm.
- Right on, and the PyDantic plugin, I'm guessing?
- And the PyDantic plugin, yeah.
- Right on, and then if you've got a package out on PyPI
that you think is interesting,
maybe not the most popular, but you're like,
"Oh, I ran across this thing that's amazing.
You should know about it."
- I should probably not break the rule
and talk about my own, but like DevTools,
which I talked about, is incredibly useful to me.
And so I would spread the word a bit on that.
Other than that, I just do a shout out
to all of those packages that people don't see
that are the bedrock of everything.
So from coverage to Starlet, which is the other library
that's the basis of FastAPI.
Sebastian's great, and I mean no offense to him,
but he stands on the shoulders of people
who've done lots of other things,
and they're really, really powerful.
So I would spare a bit of time for them.
If you're thinking of sponsoring someone,
think about sponsoring Ned who does coverage
or any of those other bits of pytest,
all the workhorses that aren't particularly headline
but are really, really valuable
to all of our daily life writing code.
- Yeah, and I'm gonna go with Vlad out there.
He says, "Many of us know about PyData
because of FastAPI."
I agree, but FastAPI, as you pointed out,
absolutely stands on top of Starlet,
which there's just this whole chain of things
that each one adds their own special sauce,
but they're there because of--
- But I should say again, FastAPI is awesome.
I didn't use it initially.
I'm a contributor to AIO HTTP, which is also really cool,
but I've, over the last year,
become a complete convert to FastAPI.
I use it, it's my go-to tool now, so it's awesome.
- Yeah, fantastic.
All right, final call to action.
people wanna check out PyDandic,
maybe they wanna contribute to PyDandic,
what do you tell them?
- Just go and have a read through the docs
and yeah, go from there.
If you can make a tweak to the docs
to make it easier to read,
if you can answer someone's question
or even create a feature, that's awesome.
- Cool, all right.
- And if I'm not there immediately
and I don't reply for weeks, I'm sorry,
and I promise to as soon as I can.
- Fantastic, all right, Samuel, thanks for being on the show.
It's been great to learn more and deep information
about PyDandic 'cause it's so simple to use it.
It's easy to just skim the surface.
- Awesome, Michael, thank you very much.
- Yeah, you bet, bye-bye.
- Yes, bye.
- Thanks everyone on the live stream.
See you next time.
[BLANK_AUDIO]